[Music]
[Applause]
your doctor is recommended that you
receive a permanent pacemaker implanted
in your body but what does that actually
mean the heart is located in the center
of the chest enclosed by the breastbone
and rib cage by contracting in a
rhythmic way it causes the blood in your
body to circulate a normally functioning
heart beats at a rate of between 60 and
100 contractions per minute these
contractions are triggered by a small
piece of heart tissue called the SA node
the SA node generates a small electrical
signal that is transmitted by nerves to
the surrounding muscle these electrical
impulses are what caused the heart
muscle to contract in some people the SA
node fails to cause the heart to
contract with its normal rhythm causing
an abnormal heartbeat or arrhythmia the
most common form of arrhythmia for which
pacemaker surgery is often recommended
is Brady arrhythmia or slow heart rate
there are a number of reasons why you
may have developed an arrhythmia but in
most cases the problem is caused by a
disruption in the SA node or in the
system of nerves that conduct electrical
signals to the heart muscle
a pacemaker is a device that is designed
to provide an electrical signal to the
heart muscle and help it maintain a
proper rhythm there are several types of
pacemakers and the particular model
selected for you will be based on your
specific condition but all pacemakers
share a common design your pacemaker
will consist of two major pieces a small
metal box that contains a battery and
other electronic components and an
insulated wire called a lead which will
carry the electrical impulses from the
pacemaker to the heart your pacemaker
will be permanently implanted in your
chest and depending on your condition
either one or two leads will be attached
to the heart muscle on the day of your
operation you will be asked to put on a
surgical gown you may receive a sedative
by mouth and an intravenous line may be
put in you will then be transferred to
the operating table
to begin the skin is swapped with an
antiseptic solution and a sterile drape
will be placed around the operative site
then the surgeon will make a small skin
incision in the upper chest just below
the collarbone a pocket is then created
between the skin and the tissue that
covers the chest muscle next the team
will use instruments called retractors
to hold back the skin and underlying
tissue they'll locate a large blood
vessel called the subclavian vein using
a special needle and syringe your doctor
will puncture the wall of the vein a
[Music]
thin guide wire is then inserted through
the needle and into the vein your doctor
gently pushes the wire until it reaches
the heart using an instrument called a
fluoroscope the surgical team is able to
see the wires progress through the vein
and into the beating heart once the
wires in place the needle is removed and
a catheter or hollow tube is passed over
the guide wire and into the heart
[Music]
one or two leads are then passed through
the catheter
[Music]
when the lead or leads are in their
proper position the catheter is removed
[Music]
finally the lead is connected to the
pacemaker the pacemaker is inserted into
the pocket below the collarbone and the
incision is closed
[Music]
you